In each of the parts of this symposium, the speaker will help us to see not only the
wonder of creation, but also the thunder of creation.
We will hear Jehovah's words like thunder loud and clear.
Please find neomy 9.6 with me.
And notice the faith-strengthening effect that creation has on the angels above, neomy 9.6.
You alone are Jehovah.
You made the heavens, yes the heaven of the heavens and all their army, the earth and all that
is on it, the seas, and all that is in them.
You preserve all of them alive and the army of the heavens are bowing down to you.
Well, that verse extolls Jehovah as the creator.
But did you notice the expression, the heaven of the heavens?
What is that?
Well, that refers to the complete extent of the physical heavens, the atmospheric heavens,
the heavens of outer space, and at the top of the heavens outer space, that rim, that
is the heaven of the heavens, the highest heavens.
Now when we look at the heavens, what do we see?
What do we feel?
Well, in that verse, did you notice it mentions first time the heavens and all their army.
That's referring to the physical army of the heavens, the stars, the planets, the galaxies.
Did you notice in the last sentence, there's another army of the heavens.
And that refers to the holy angels of God.
And just contemplating the physical creation, the angels are moved to bow down or worship
Jehovah, contemplating the creation can have a similar effect on us.
Now each talk of this symposium will discuss how meditating on an aspect of creation
will build our faith in Jehovah's promises.
Let's watch a video about the stars.
And then we will have a faith strengthening application to our resurrection hope.
Our sun is considered an average star, yet the energy from the sun that reaches the earth
is thousands of times the world's total energy use.
With our unated eyes, we might see about 3,000 stars on a dark night.
Many in a fuzzy band, the Milky Way galaxy, where our sun is just one of perhaps
200 to 400 billion stars.
Astronomers think the Milky Way galaxy is clustered together with around 100,000 large galaxies
in a massive structure called a supercluster.
That together with an estimated 2 trillion galaxies make up the known physical universe.
Countless stars spread over unfathomable distances, releasing immense amounts of energy
may be impossible to grasp for us, but not for Jehovah.
He counts the number of the stars, he calls all of them by name.
Our Lord is great and is mighty in power.
In just a two minute video about the stars, we see the awesome wonder.
But do we hear the thunder?
Do we hear the clear, undeniable application from Jehovah our Creator?
I invite you to turn with me to Isaiah 4026, please.
What can we come to appreciate about Jehovah by pondering the magnitude and the magnificence
of the stars?
Well, in Isaiah 4026, Jehovah says, look at the stars.
He says, lift up your eyes to heaven and see.
Who has created these things?
The wonder.
It is the one who brings out their army by number.
He calls them all by name.
Because of his vast dynamic energy and his awe-inspiring power, not one of them is missing.
On the video we saw, it estimated that there are 2 trillion galaxies in outer space, each
with billions of stars.
So do the math.
How many names of inanimate objects does Jehovah have in his memory?
How many can he possibly contain?
But did you notice at the end of that verse, it says that not one of them are missing?
It is said that there's a billion trillion stars.
So I have to ask you, would Jehovah remember your name, your loved one's name?
Not one of them is missing.
Not one star goes missing to Jehovah?
Well, how about our dead loved ones?
Did they go missing?
My favorite verse is when a faithful servant of Jehovah dies, our Romans 14, 7 through 9.
In verse 8, it says, if we live or if we die, we belong to Jehovah.
The status with Jehovah does not change at death.
That person did not go missing.
But what about those of us who have loved ones that at the time of their death, they had
not come to learn about or put faith in Jehovah?
What about that?
Well, think about this.
If Jehovah had the ability, the power to create those huge stars and galaxies, he can
recreate all, all those sleeping in the memorial tombs.
Find John 5, 28, and 29.
Let's verify that so that all of us, whether the dead loved one was previously a faithful
witness or not, all of us can entertain the hope of the resurrection.
John 5, 28, and 29 did not be amazed at this.
For the hour is coming in which all, all those in the memorial tombs will hear his voice
and come out.
Those who did good things to a resurrection of life and those who practiced, you see even
vile things to a resurrection of judgment.
Yes, they'll be restored to life and they'll have the opportunity to come to love the
one who gifted them with a miracle of a resurrection.
Now, in our video, right at the end, on screen, there was a quotation of Psalm 147, 4 and
5.
In verse 4, it says that Jehovah counts all the stars, the billion trillions or more of
them.
It says he named each one the billion or trillion of them.
That is amazing indeed.
I would like to learn another lesson from the book of Job.
Joe 14, please, we're going to reverse 13 and 15.
When a star burns out, it does not go missing to Jehovah.
No doubt he remembers its name, but he is not motivated to resurrect that star back to
light so that it can again twinkle in a dark night sky.
But what about humans?
We were created in the image of Jehovah God and his son, Christ Jesus, Joe 14, 13.
Job says, Oh, that in the grave, you would conceal me, that you would hide me until your
anger passes by, that you would set a time limit for me and remember me.
In verse 14, it's obviously talking about the resurrection.
What would Job in effect just become a burned out star?
No.
Unlike a burned out star, Jehovah yearns he longs to call back each human to life so that
we can again see that star like twinkle in their eyes.
And now verse 15, you, that's Jehovah, we'll call and I will answer you.
You see from the grave, I will answer you.
You will long for the work of your hands, but Jehovah has the memory to bring back people.
He has the power to bring back people and he has the longing to bring back people to life.
Friends, observe the stars, have faith that you will see your resurrected loved ones.
And now brother Pat LaFranca, a helper to the personnel committee will continue this
symposium with his talk, use creation to build your faith, oceans.